MiG User Scripts

Last updated %%date(%d-%m-%Y %H:%M)
% End of the three default header lines
%! Encoding: utf8
%! Options : --toc --enum-title
% End of the optional settings lines

%
% This is a txt2tags formatted document.
% Generate pure text version by running:
% txt2tags --toc -t txt -o MiG-user-scripts.txt MiG-user-scripts.t2t
%
% Generate HTML version by running:
% txt2tags --toc -t html -o MiG-user-scripts.html MiG-user-scripts.t2t
%
% Generate LaTeX version by running:
% txt2tags --toc -t tex -o MiG-user-scripts.tex MiG-user-scripts.t2t
%
% The Makefile wraps up generation including the examples above
% nicely. So just run: 
% make MiG-user-scripts.{html,ps,pdf,txt}


%%toc

= Introduction =
MiG provides multiple interfaces for all user interaction: The
non-intrusive web interface most appropriate when handling a limited number
of jobs and files and the library and command line interfaces more
suitable for big projects with too many jobs and files to handle
manually.


This document focuses on the MiG scripts, and includes examples of the
basic usage.


= Prerequisites =
In order to access MiG you generally need a MiG key/certificate pair: please
contact us if you haven't already got one.

The user scripts rely heavily on [curl http://curl.haxx.se] for communication
with the MiG servers. Any recent version of curl should work without problems,
as long as ssl/tls support is included. Old curl versions prior to 7.10,
didn't support the //--insecure// flag, which is used if no MiG CA certificate
is available. Similarly the //--create-dirs// flag wasn't available back
then. Any problems related to those two flags not being available can be
circumvented by using a simple wrapper that just filters out the flags,
since they are already implicitly set in those old versions. Please contact us
for more details if needed.

Currently the scripts are available in two scripting languages - //python//
and //sh//. The python scripts provide platform independent script access
to MiG, but may require the user to install 
[python http://www.python.org]
 if not already available. The sh scripts on the
other hand are un*x primarily, but seldom require anything to be installed
as an sh-interpreter is normally readily available.
The sh-scripts are intended to be //pure// sh, but our testing is somewhat
limited to bash and zsh, so we may have missed some bash'isms. Again,
please feel free to report any problems. 


= Obtaining the scripts =
All MiG scripts are provided on a //on-demand// basis through a generator cgi
script. To obtain the latest version, simply point your browser to
[user-scripts https://dk.migrid.org/cgi-bin/scripts.py?flavor=user]
. It is possible to pass options to the generator in order to change the
generated script languages and default application paths.
Go to the 
[usage-help https://dk.migrid.org/cgi-bin/scripts.py?flags=h]
to get help on using these options.
After running the generator successfully, the output will include links
to the location of the generated scripts. Simply select the zip link to
download a zip archive of the scripts.
Unpack the archive and you're ready to start using the scripts.


= Configuration =
You receive information about the address of the MiG server that you
should use along with the key/certificate pair. In order to use the
scripts you need to create a configuration file including the server
address and paths to your key and certificate. The default configuration
location is ~/.mig/miguser.conf, but you can override it with the -c
flag to all user scripts. After saving the certificate and key in
~/.mig/cert.pem and ~/.mig/key.pem an example configuration could look
like:
```
migserver https://MIG-SERVER
certfile /home/LOGIN/.mig/cert.pem
keyfile /home/LOGIN/.mig/key.pem
```
With that configuration each mig user script execution will ask for your
passphrase. If you wish to avoid typing the passphrase you can add a
password line to your configuration:
```
password MYPASSPHRASE
```
IMPORTANT NOTICE: this will allow anybody with read access to the
configuration file to read your password!!
Please make sure to protect the configuration file with suitable read
permission if you choose to include the password.

Additionally it is recommended to verify the identity of the MiG server by
providing a CA certificate path in the configuration:
```
cacertfile /home/LOGIN/.mig/cacert.pem
```
Please contact us if you haven't been given a copy of the CA
certificate, cacert.pem .


= Using the scripts =
First of all change directory to the unpacked MiG-user-scripts
directory.
In general all MiG scripts include a short usage help which is shown if
the script is called with the //-h// flag or if incorrect syntax is used.
In the following sections most of the MiG user scripts are shown in
action. Each section contains examples using both the sh and python
version. The two versions work in a very similar way under the hood, so
the example output can be expected to be identical or very similar. Thus
only one output example is shown for each operation.

== submit a job ==
This example uses a very simple job described in the file
hellogrid.mRSL:
```
cat hellogrid.mRSL
::EXECUTE::
echo "Hello grid"
```
After creating the job description file it can be submitted:

- python
```
python migsubmit.py hellogrid.mRSL
```

- sh
```
./migsubmit.sh hellogrid.mRSL
```


Example output:
```
0
332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0 is the job id assigned.
```
Now the job can be referenced by the unique string 
332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0 in status and cancel
requests.


== show the status of a job ==

- python
```
python migstatus.py 332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0
```

- sh
```
./migstatus.sh 332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: jobstatus

___MIG UNSORTED  JOB STATUS___

Job Id: 332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0
Status: EXECUTING
Received: Thu Jul 29 09:02:05 2010
Queued: Thu Jul 29 09:02:06 2010
Executing: Thu Jul 29 09:03:30 2010
```
In this case the job has moved to the EXECUTING state meaning that it
has been sent to a resource for execution.


== show the status of all submitted MiG jobs ==

- python
```
python migstatus.py
```

- sh
```
./migstatus.sh
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: jobstatus

___MIG UNSORTED  JOB STATUS___

Job Id: 332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0
Status: FINISHED
Received: Thu Jul 29 09:02:05 2010
Queued: Thu Jul 29 09:02:06 2010
Executing: Thu Jul 29 09:03:30 2010
Finished: Thu Jul 29 09:04:01 2010
```
In this case the job is FINISHED executing so any results are now
available in the home directory.

== cancel a job ==

- python
```
python migcancel.py 332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0
```

- sh
```
./migcancel.sh 332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 100 Description Client error
Title: jobaction

___JOBACTION___

Job ID                                    Old status  New status	Message
332635_7_29_2010__9_2_4_dk.migrid.org.0     FINISHED			You can
only cancel jobs with status: PARSE or QUEUED or RETRY or EXECUTING or FROZEN.
```
As seen above the cancel failed with exit code 100 since the job already
finished. Furthermore the output indicates that jobs that are either
queued or executing can be cancelled. The latter will both stop the
running job and cancel it.


== list the contents of your MiG home directory ==

- python
```
python migls.py
```

- sh
```
./migls.sh
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: File Management

___FILE MANAGEMENT___

MiG-user-scripts-26072010-101706
MiG-user-scripts-26072010-101706.zip
hellogrid.mRSL
job_output
```
The zero tells us that the operation succeeded and the rest are
the actual contents of the MiG home directory. hellogrid.mRSL is the job
description file we implicitly uploaded in the submit script. The
job_output directory contains individual job directories with
a.o. output and exit codes for the job execution. 


== concatenate and print file contents ==

- python
```
python migcat.py '*.mRSL' 'job_output/332635_*/*'
```

- sh
```
./migcat.sh '*.mRSL' 'job_output/332635_*/*'
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: cat

___CAT___

::EXECUTE::
echo "Hello grid"
Hello grid
get_special_input_files 0
get_input_files 0
get_executables 0
output_files_missing 0
send_output_files 0
send_io_files 0
echo "Hello grid" 0
```
The first two lines are from the job description, while the two last
lines are from the stdout, io-status and status files respectively. In
the status file it is indicated that the exit code of the echo command
was 0. The get_input_files 0 and similar lines indicate that job
preparation like downloading any input files and sending results
succeeded. 


== download files ==

- python
```
python migget.py 'job_output/332635_*/*.st*' .
```

- sh
```
./migget.sh 'job_output/332635_*/*.st*' .
```


Example output:
```
```
Now the job .stdout and .status files with output and exit codes from the
previous job are locally available. Please note that file operation like
migget support wild cards in remote filenames, but that it may be
necessary to escape or quote the names with wild cards in them to avoid
local shell wild card expansion. 


== upload files ==
In this example we create a local file and upload it to the MiG home.
```
touch somefile
for i in `seq 1 100`; do
    echo "test line $i" >> somefile;
done
```

- python
```
python migput.py somefile ,
```

- sh
```
./migput.sh somefile .
```


Example output:
```
0
A 'normal' file was uploaded (//somefile). It can now be used as an
inputfile in your .mRSL files
```


== print first lines of files ==

- python
```
python mighead.py somefile
```

- sh
```
./mighead.sh somefile
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: head

___HEAD___

test line 1
test line 2
test line 3
test line 4
test line 5
test line 6
test line 7
test line 8
test line 9
test line 10
test line 11
test line 12
test line 13
test line 14
test line 15
test line 16
test line 17
test line 18
test line 19
test line 20
```
The output contains the first 20 lines of the uploaded file, somefile.
You can use the -n N parameter to limit the output to the first N lines
of the file just like the local head command.


== print last lines of files ==

- python
```
python migtail.py somefile
```

- sh
```
./migtail.sh somefile
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: tail

___TAIL___

test line 81
test line 82
test line 83
test line 84
test line 85
test line 86
test line 87
test line 88
test line 89
test line 90
test line 91
test line 92
test line 93
test line 94
test line 95
test line 96
test line 97
test line 98
test line 99
test line 100
```
The output contains the last 20 lines of the uploaded file, somefile,
unless the -n parameter is used.


== delete files ==

- python
```
python migrm.py somefile
```

- sh
```
./migrm.sh somefile
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: rm

___RM___

```
A subsequent migls somefile will show that it is no longer available in the
MiG home directory.

```
Exit code: 105 Description File not found
Title: File Management

___FILE MANAGEMENT___

somefile: No such file or directory
```


== show online documentation ==
Run migdoc without arguments to get a list of available topics:

- python
```
python migdoc.py
```

- sh
```
./migdoc.sh
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: docs

___MIG ON-DEMAND DOCUMENTATION___


This is the integrated help system for MiG.
You can search for a documentation topic or select the particular
section directly.
Please note that the integrated help is rather limited to short
overviews and
technical specifications.

You can find more user friendly tutorials and examples on the
official site support pages:
http://code.google.com/p/migrid/wiki/FrontPage

___DOCUMENTATION TOPICS:___

Valid outputformats
Resource configuration
Runtime Environments
Job description: mRSL
License and Acknowledgements
```

To see the documentation for one or more of the topics, run the script
with some part of those topic titles as argument(s).

- python
```
python migdoc.py mrsl conf
```

- sh
```
./migdoc.sh mrsl conf
```


Example output:
```
Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: docs

___MIG ON-DEMAND DOCUMENTATION___


___JOB DESCRIPTION: MRSL___


___ARCHITECTURE___

Description: CPU architecture required for execution
Title: CPU Architecture
Required: False
Value: 
Editor: select
Type: string
Example: 
::ARCHITECTURE::
X86

This particular server supports the following values:
X86, AMD64, IA64, SPARC, SPARC64, ITANIUM, SUN4U, SPARC-T1, SPARC-T2, PS3, CELL

___CPUCOUNT___

Description: Number of CPU's the job requires on each node.
Title: Number of CPU Cores
Required: False
Value: 1
Editor: input
Type: int
Example: 4

___CPUTIME___

Description: The time required to execute the job. The time is specified
in seconds
Title: CPU/Wall Time (s)
Required: False
Value: 600
Editor: input
Type: int
Example: 60

[ ...  ]


Exit code: 0 Description OK
Title: docs

___MIG ON-DEMAND DOCUMENTATION___


___RESOURCE CONFIGURATION___


___ADMINEMAIL___

Description: A space separated list of email addresses of resource
administrators - used to notify about internal errors.
Title: Administrator E-mail
Required: False
Value: 
Editor: invisible
Type: string
Example: admin@yourdomain.org

___ANONYMOUS___

Description: Enable anonymous resource ID for this resource in all grid
interfaces. When enabled the unique resource name will be hashed to a
long string of apparently random characters. Default vlaue is True.
Title: Anonymize ID in grid
Required: False
Value: True
Editor: select
Type: boolean
Example: False

___ARCHITECTURE___

Description: The CPU architecture of the execution nodes.
Title: CPU Architecture of the Nodes
Required: True
Value: X86
Editor: select
Type: string
Example: Valid architectures: ['X86', 'AMD64', 'IA64', 'SPARC',
'SPARC64', 'ITANIUM', 'SUN4U', 'SPARC-T1', 'SPARC-T2', 'PS3', 'CELL']

[ ... ]

```

Multiple topcis can be specified and they are treated as case
insensitive values.


== flags ==
All the scripts support a few common flags in order to provide a more
flexible operation. In addition to those flags some of the scripts
support a number of extra flags only relevant to that particular script.
All the available flags for a particular script are shown when the
script is run with the //-h// flag:

- python
```
python migls.py -h
```
- sh
```
./migls.sh -h
```


Example output:
```
Usage: migls.py [OPTIONS] [FILE ...]
Where OPTIONS include:
-c CONF         read configuration from CONF instead of
                default (~/.mig/miguser.conf).
-h              display this help
-s MIG_SERVER   force use of MIG_SERVER.
-v              verbose mode
-V              display version
-a              Do not hide entries starting with '.'
-l              Display long format
-r              act recursively
```


To use a configuration in a non-standard location
use the //-c// flag:

- python
```
python migls.py -c my-mig.conf 
```
- sh
```
./migls.sh -c my-mig.conf 
```


The //-s// flag can be used to override the //migserver// line in the configuration:
- python
```
python migls.py -s "https://amigos18.diku.dk:12345"
```
- sh
```
./migls.sh -s "https://amigos18.diku.dk:12345"
```


Use the //-V// flag to find out which version of the scripts you have:
- python
```
python migls.py -V
```
- sh
```
./migls.sh -V
```

Use the //-v// flag to turn on more verbose output:
- python
```
python migls.py -v
```
- sh
```
./migls.sh -v
```


= Changing key/certificate passphrase =
You need [openssl www.openssl.org] in order to change the passphrase on
your key and certificates.

To create a copy of the key with a new passphrase:
```
openssl rsa -in key.pem -des3 -out key.pem.new
[enter old passphrase]
[enter new passphrase]
[verify new passphrase]
```
Now you can use the new key (and thus the new passphrase) along with the
original pem certificate for the MiG scripts.

To create a copy of the P12 certificate with a new import password:
```
openssl pkcs12 -export -in cert.pem -inkey key.pem -out cert.p12.new
[enter key passphrase]
[enter new export password]
[verify new export password]
```
Now you can import the new P12 certificate using the new password. In
case you wish to change both the key and P12 passwords, you should
replace the -inkey argument in the latter command with the path to the
newly created key. 


= Feedback =
Please send any feedback to the MiG community at 
http://groups.google.com/group/migrid/
